---
title: "Super Friends are not (Super) Fans of Automation"
date: 2021-12-01
draft: true
description: 
tags: [essays, film, AI]
---

_Super Friends_ was one of several Saturday morning Hanna-Barbera shows that ran from the early-1970s until the mid-1980s. The _Friends_ on this show were none other than our beloved caped (and some un-caped) crusaders of the Justice League, namely, Superman, Batman, Wonder Women and Aquaman, as well as their child-sidekicks Wendy, Marvin and Wonder Dog (if these sidekicks sound unfamiliear to fans of the DC universe, it's because they weren't really comic-book characters, and Wonder Dog was basically a cape-wearing verion of Scooby-Doo). I have recently been watching episodes of this show at night to wind-down, because I figured that an animated cartoon from the 70s might be likely inane and low-stakes enough to switch my brain off and fall asleep to. Right?

Wrong.

What I have discovered instead is that _Super Friends_ is a peculiarly fascinating show where each episode is almost forty minutes long (what kind of attention spans did kids from the 70s have?), which is often enough time to setup a premise with some sort of moral connotations, establish audience expectations, throw in twists and turns and raise stakes enough that our heroes face serious trouble, and then wrap up comfortably. Of course, the stakes could never be _too high_ and the Super Friends were all holly-jolly characters who dealt with problems without the characteristic brooding that their modern cinematic avatars exhibit - it was after all, a show for kids. But some of the absurd setups and strange characters and underlying messaging are very different from what I've grown to expect from the show's contemporaries, such as Scooby-Doo, or the Flintstones.

One episode particularly stands out for me in terms of not only how evocative [^1] it is of our modern world, but also in terms of its take on the human condition, particularly the roots of our purpose and happiness in life. 




## References:

[^1]: Would something from the past _evoke_ an image of the future or would it _invoke_ it? Can things only evoke memories of the past? Who knows? Language is made up any way. 